---
layout: post
title: Query.jl - Query almost anything in julia
author: <a href="http://www.david-anthoff.com/">David Anthoff</a>
---

[Query.jl](https://github.com/davidanthoff/Query.jl) is a new julia package that provides powerful data manipulation capabilities. This post introduces the package. The first part describes the package from a user's point of view. The second part will discuss the design of the package and the many extension points that the package provides.

**Using Query.jl**

Query.jl is a registered package and can be installed by using the normal package manager functionality:

```julia
julia> Pkg.add("Query")
```

To follow the examples in this post, make sure you also have the [DataFrames.jl]() package installed.

A simple query that filters a `DataFrame` source looks like this:

```julia
using DataFrames, Query

df = DataFrame(name=["John", "Sally", "Kirk"], age=[23., 35., 62.], children=[0, 2, 4])

q1 = @from i in df begin
     @where i.age>30
     @select i
     @collect DataFrame
end

println(q1)

# output
```

A query expression starts with the `@from` macro. The first argument specifies the name of the range variable that should be used to refer to individual rows in later query statements. In the example the range variable is `i`. One also specifies the data source as an argument to the `@from` macro, in the example the source is the `DataFrame` instance `df`. The `@where` statement applies a filter to the data source. The argument to the `@where` statement can be any julia expression that evaluates to either `true` or `false`. This filter condition is applied separately to each element in the data source, and the current element can be access by using the range variable that one picked in the opening `@from` statement. The type of this range variable depends on the data source. For tabular data sources, the range variable typically is an instance of a [NamedTuple.jl](), i.e. the range variable refers to a whole row from the data source and one can access the value for an individual column by either using the dot syntax as in the example, or by indexing into the range variable. For example `i[2]` would select the value of the second column in the data source. The `@select` statement projects the results. In this case no transformation is applied, that is for those rows that made it past the `@where` filter, the example selects all columns from the data source. The `@collect` statement specifies the data structure that the query should return. In the example the results will be returned as a `DataFrame`.

     